# Record Guidelines

* ## **DO** specify class or struct explicitly rather than relying on implicit class type

* ## **DO** use PascalCase for the primary constructor parameters
  
   Positional parameters are the parameters included in the type declaration. For example, `Name` is a positional parameter in `record class Person(string Name) {}`.

* ## **DO** use record structs when defining value types

* ## **CONSIDER** using readonly when defining a record struct

    This is in accordance with the struct framework guideline, **DO NOT** define mutable value types.

* ## **DO NOT** use records classes and record structs as entity types in Entity Framework Core (EF)

    EF depends on reference equality to ensure that it uses only one instance of an entity type for what is conceptually one entity

## Record Example

```cs
record struct Person(string FirstName, string LastName)
{
    public Person(string firstName, string lastName, string middleName) : this(firstName, lastName)
    {
        MiddleName = middleName;
    }

    //public string Name { get; set; }
    public string? MiddleName { get; init; }

    public static Person Create(string firstName, string lastName, string middleName)
    {
        return new Person(firstName, lastName) { MiddleName = middleName};
    }
}

readonly record struct GeoCoordinate(
    Longitude Longitude, Latitude Latitude)
{

}
```

## Record Notes

* A positional record class and a positional **readonly** record struct declare init-only properties. (**readonly** is only available on record struct.)
* record structs have mutable (read/write) parameters.
* Mutability for records is shallow - therefore reference type properties can be changed.

## Primary Constructor Notes

* When a primary constructor parameter is used, the compiler captures the constructor parameter in a **private field** with a compiler-generated name.
* If a primary constructor parameter **isn't used in the body** of the type, **no private field is captured**. (That rule prevents accidentally allocating two copies of a primary constructor parameter that's passed to a base constructor.)
* If the type includes the **record modifier**, the compiler instead synthesizes a **public property** with the same name as the primary constructor parameter.
* For record class types, if a primary constructor parameter uses the same name as a base primary constructor, that property is a public property of the base record class type. It isn't duplicated in the derived record class type. These properties aren't generated for non-record types.

Therefore consider a guideline:
**Avoid** using primary constructors
